the adults focus is now set on a
ruthless competition to mate a male bids
to enter a herd with females in season
he uses dust to accentuate all his size
and power
[Music]
another male already established in the
herd answers the display and weights the
newcomer responds by scent marking and
moving even closer
[Music]
this challenge cannot be tolerated
the resident male has one having seen
off his rival next summer's Cavs will
likely be his one family here can't wait
for winter to really arrive these polar
bears need the sea to freeze completely
so they have a solid platform from which
to hunt seals right now they're hungry
the Cubs mother can sniff out a meal
from 20 miles away the rotting remains
of a bowhead whale
it may not look too appetizing but this
blubber is packed with calories and
vitamins an adult bear can eat sixty
kilos at a single sitting
the problem with a feast like this is
that it will bring in hungry bears from
miles around
[Music]
they might not be a threat but she's not
going to hang around to find out
[Music]
soon the sea will be frozen solid and
the Bears will be back in their element
bald eagles spot carcasses from miles
away but there is strong competition for
a kill like this
a coyote he has been shadowing the
Wolves and moves in now they have gone
the effect of the turning tide can be
totally different on a rocky shore
here on the coast of Vancouver Island in
Canada the Sun bakes the exposed rock
it's virtually impossible to dig
underground when the sea retreats
so these mussels and barnacles are fully
exposed to the heat of the Sun literally
cooking in their own shells and the
seaweed simply dry to a crisp
it can be a weight of many hours before
the water returns throughout each month
the size and strength of the tide
changes the biggest tides of all
happened when the gravities of the Sun
and Moon pull in unison that happens
immediately after the new moon
and again after the full moon
[Music]
these are called the spring tides they
revealed vast tracts of seabed that
would normally be covered for these
raccoons it's a chance to look for a
seafood feast the mother ventures forth
with her kits with the spring tide
they've come further down the beats and
smaller tides would normally allow
searching with their extraordinarily
sensitive paws they look for suitable
prey with the extreme low tide they
could find something special
and what could be better than a Red Rock
crab that is if it weren't for the risk
of a painful pinch
with large crabs there's no substitute
for experience the mother makes an
expert sketch
but the kids learn fast
and for those that don't begging is
always worth a try
all too soon the returning tide will
cover the raccoons table
for all in vertebrates it's a welcome
relief but in rough weather they are
exposed to the worst of the waves
a beaver the family that lives here in
this lake at the foot of the Teton
Mountains in Wyoming
while beavers can get around perfectly
well on land they're most at home in the
water where their webbed hind feet at
large Pavelec tail make them powerful
swimmers above and below the surface
[Music]
like marmots Reavers feed on all kinds
of vegetation and eat wood as well as
leaves and they're accomplished
engineer's this great pond is entirely
their own creation only a few years ago
this shallow pebble is stream flowed
straight down the valley then a family
of beavers moved in and built a dam the
main body of it is built of boulders on
the downstream side it's been lined with
logs some of them big and quite heavy
and on this side it's been packed with
mud and vegetation it's been built so
accurately that it is to within a few
inches horizontal across its entire
length of about 150 yards from one side
to the other and the lake it created
stretches upstream for almost a mile
so important is their damn to them that
if they detect the slightest leak
usually by hearing the sound of
trickling water they start repair worked
immediately
mud is needed as well as logs
[Applause]
the repair team will labor away until
the leak is fully repaired maintaining
the water at a high level brings beavers
several advantages one of which is that
it floods the surrounding woodland and
so enables them to swim in safety to
their main source of food they increase
the distance they can swim by digging
channels that lead into the very heart
of the woodland here they can use their
sharp incisor teeth to strip off the
bark from a fallen tree trunk and nibble
at it while still being cursed enough to
water to slip away should a bear or a
mountain lion turn up
their network of channels also enables
them to ferry whole branches back to
their pond
[Music]
and there where the water is deepest
they dive down and push each branch
firmly into the mud at the bottom this
is the beavers fridge where the
vegetation will keep fresh through the
long winter when the pond is covered
with ice
[Music]
stocking the fridge takes a lot of work
and the beavers are at their busiest in
autumn
[Music]
[Applause]
at one side of the lake sands their
Lodge a fortress built of branches and
boulders that so strong that not even a
bear could break into it
the only entrance is through tunnels
that open under water and the Beavers
take refuge here whenever they are
alarmed that was a warning signal to say
that danger was around let's say me and
now I may not see the Beavers for some
time they can stay underwater for five
minutes at a time up to 15 if they need
to they can actually get back to the
safety of their Lodge without putting
their head above the surface for a
single second most lodges have at least
two different entrances by October
winter is well underway but whereas
marmots would now be hibernating the
Beavers are still active and will remain
that way throughout the winter even when
the pond ice is ever completely they're
still able to swim under the ice to get
back and forth to their Lodge no one
knew exactly what went on inside the
lodge during winter so when the Beavers
were away we installed a couple of
infrared cameras in order to find out a
branch from the fridge is being brought
back to the lodge for the whole family
to feed on
and another no wonder they don't need to
hibernate with this ingenious set up the
largest warm and safe even in midwinter
and the only sign of activity in the
snug home beneath the snow is hot air
rising from the vent of the top
inside our cameras catch a glimpse of
what at first sight looks like a very
small beaver
it's a muskrat they're a pair of them in
here this is a new observation to the
Beavers actually no in the pitch
blackness that there are strangers among
them we noticed that the muskrats
regularly left the lodge to forage under
the ice and on several occasions they
returned a few minutes later with a load
of fresh reeds perhaps the muskrats are
paying rent by regularly providing fresh
bedding from the lodge
[Music]
maybe that is why the Beavers accept
them and even allow them to share their
food
[Music]
ah infrared lights are no longer welcome
it seems
[Music]